Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Programming language is a set of instructions or rules use in computer.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
JDK(Java Development Kit)is a comprehensive set of tools for developing java program.

Following is a list of the main components of the JDK:
    The Runtime Interpreter.
    The Compiler.
    The Applet Viewer.
    The Debugger.
    The Class File Disassembler.
    The Header and Stub File Generator.
    The Documentation Generator.
    Applet Demos.

What is IDE?
A.
Integrated Development Environment.It facilitate programmer for software development.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
1.Eclipse 2.IntellijIDEA
Explain the entire java life cycle.
    There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
    Editing the program
    Compiling the source code
    Executing the byte code
what is class?
A. class is an entity that determines how an object will behave and what the object will contain
What is object?
A. An object is a self-contained component which consists of methods and properties.
What is the entry point of an application?
A.An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Why main is static?
A. So that we can call the method directly from the class,without creating an object of that class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Parent class
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is a mediator between developer and operating system
Classpath is a mediator between developer and compiler
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Abstract class is partially abstract but Interface class is fully abstract.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No.I am to create a child class object and call those methods from there.
what is Access Specifier?
A. Access specifiers are used to control the visibility of members like classes, variables and methods.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP(Object Oriented Programming).4 components of OOP are abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is like a folder in which java class is declared.java.lang is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. In computer programming, an application programming interface is a set of subroutine definitions,
communication protocols, and tools for building software.
1.SOUP API 2.RESTFULL API
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No.java doenot support multiple inheritance.
suppose c is the child class extending from both parent class a and parent class b with some methods
defined in them. Then child class cannot understand which class method to call.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Same method name with different number or types of arguments in a same class is called Method Overloading
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. 1.FileNotFoundException 2.IOException.
using throws declaration,try-catch block.
 What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static Keyword means all the functions belongs to that particular class.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A.  final is keyword.In final variables can not be changed,no inheritation is allowed,and no method overriding.
What is a constructor ?
A. Constructor is a block of code which initializes object of a class.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes,But with different parameter.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default Constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. "this" is a reference variable in java which refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. "super" Keyword refers to the immediate parent class object. "super" can be used with variables and methods
What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Vartual Machine.
Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes.
What version of java are you using?
A.Version 11.
What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java ARchive.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK provides essential tool to develop a java program.JVM converts Byte codes to machine specific code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM converts Byte codes to machine specific code.JRE is the implementation of JVM.
What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile-time is the instance where the code is entered and converted to executable.
While Run-time is the instance where the executable is running.
What is heap?
A. heap is a tree based data structure.
How java manage it's memory?
A. By itself.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable,whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable.
What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be
persisted to a database through stream.Deserialization is reverse of Serialization.
when to use transient variable in java?
A. At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file,
then we use transient keyword
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop checks the condition initially and then executes.
But do-while executes the body at least once even if the condition is false.
What is Enum?
A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
What is Iterator?
A.Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.
Read more:
What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation
What is JIT stands for?
A.Just In Time.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Both are memory management system. when heap is full garbage collection starts cleaning.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. Yes, Because it's an automatic process.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.heap memory is used to store objects in Java.Stack memory is used to store local variables and function.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.
what is multithreading in java?
A.The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program
to maximum utilize the CPU time.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.To avoid two threads during execution.
What is Framework?
A. A framework, or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Selenium,TestNG,Cucumber,JUnit
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.
What are the dependencies for this project?
A. In a project network, a dependency is a link amongst a project's terminal elements
what is dependency injection in java?
A.Java Dependency Injection allows us to remove the hard-coded dependencies
and make our application extendable and maintainable
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime









