Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. For efficiently storing data, sharing data, retrieving data from a database.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. Create table,Insert values,Update,Delete,Drop,Alter
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. Compiler Design,Operating System,Database Management System,
   Statistical analysis package,Numerical Analysis,Graphics,
   Artificial Intelligence,Simulation
what is an Array?
A. Array is a data structure consisting of a collection of elements, each identified
by at least one array index or key.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
what is LinkedList?
A. A linked list is a linear data structure,in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. Arrays are of fixed size.Linked lists are dynamic and flexible.
what is queue?
A. A queue is an ordered collection of items where the addition of new items happens at one end, called the “rear,”
and the removal of existing items occurs at the other end, commonly called the “front.”
what is stack?
A. A stack is an ordered collection of items where the addition of new items and the removal
of existing items always takes place at the same end.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. First In First Out, Last In First Out
what is the order of complexity?
A.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.The best case for a simple linear search on a list occurs when the desired
  element is the first element of the list
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A. When an array is unsorted.
what is tree in data structure?
A.Tree is a set of nodes storing elements such that the nodes have
  a parent-child relationship or linked with the primary key and foreign key.
what is graph in data structure?
A. A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A. Hashtable is synchronized, HashMap is not synchronized.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A. RDBMS – Array
   Network data model – Graph
   Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A. with Key and Value pair using put and get method.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs when we try to access an element of an array,
with an index that is negative or more than the size of array itself.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A. We can manually copy elements by using a loop, create a clone of the array,
 use Arrays.copyOf() method or System.arrayCopy()
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. Arrays are index based data structure.On the other hand, Linked list relies on references
What is DFS and BFS?
A. The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS)
What is Recursion?
A. Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method
calls itself to solve some problem.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A. The linear data structure is a single level data structure while non-linear data structures
are the multilevel data structure.
What is Big-(O)-notation?
A. Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a
   function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


